In Spring, there are roles and authorities.
There is actually not much difference between them,
and they are stored in the same granted authorities collection.
What differentiates them is that roles are prefixed with ROLE_,
and authorities are not prefixed.
Granted authorities are used for authorization,
like here where we specified that these two roles
are required to access this URI.
The hasRole would simply look up an authority that has
the value role_user or role_admin.
Whereas hasAuthority would look up the exact match.
Conceptually, roles are used for coarse-grain authorization.
You might have a user role so if an authenticated
principal is assigned this role,
they have comment permissions to access the site that,
for example, a user would.
Whereas authorities can be more finer-grained.
So you might have some users with additional authorities to
access premium content or special areas.
Now by default, Spring will set one role of user for authenticated principals.
But you may need to map some additional claims returned by
the userinfo endpoint into authorities.
And to do this,
we can use the GrantedAuthoritiesMapper by creating a class that implements
this interface and overriding the MapAuthorities method.
Now at first it can be a little confusing.
Why would the method have an authorities collection
object to map to authorities?
Aren't we mapping claims to authorities?
Yes.
The GrantedAuthorities mapper is called after the OAuth2 user
object is retrieved by the user service.
By default,
the user service will add the role user and also
scopes to the granted authorities.
The mapper allows you to adjust the authorities after the fact.
Now because the authentication process is not yet complete,
there won't be an authentication object in the security context.
And to give you access to the token and claims,
the user service adds either an OidcUserAuthority or an
OAuth2UserAuthority to the granted authorities, which you can then retrieve and use to map claims to authorities.